[theme music playing]
[chattering, giggling]
It's so crafty!
I just woke up like this.
Whatever you do,
don't look at Ethel's face.
[Maud] Wow!
Maud!
-What? It's not as if I can miss it.
-I know.
-Poor Ethel.
-Do you want something?
Um, you've got something
kind of growing on your face.
You mean my wart?
Um... maybe you should see the nurse.
You might better get rid of it.
[laughing]
Actually, Mildred, uh,
warts are special for us.
-It's a witch thing.
-[Ethel] Gosh.
Being you must be exhausting.
All this time
and you still know absolutely nothing.
You get a lump on your face
and suddenly you're the bat's pajamas.
Not quite. The last wart I saw
was my great-great-grandma's...
smack-bang on the end of her nose.
Ethel looks like an old lady,
and she's glad.
Well, it's a sign
of a really powerful witch.
They're crazy rare nowadays, though.
I wish I had a great-great-grandma witch
to teach me all this stuff.
Ethel's right, isn't she?
I'll never catch up with you lot.
Tell us how you got it, Ethel, please?
-Was it special soap?
-Face yoga?
-Ooh, toad-infused moisturizer?
-No, no, no!
-You're learning loads.
-Yeah. Take today.
I've learned that warts are old-fashioned
and trendy at the same time.
I suppose our world
can be quite confusing.
[Mildred] No kidding.
You're doing your hair.
To me, that means you want your bunches
extra curly, but in witch world...?
I want my bunches extra curly.
Bad example.
But if I was a proper witch,
I'd already know all these things.
You are a proper witch. Fact.
[Maud] Present from my auntie.
You can borrow it if you like.
So as a witch, someone somewhere
in your mum's family...
must have been one, too.
A Brief Witchory of the World?
If you have any witching ancestors...
this is where you're gonna find them.
If you get magic from your mum
and my mum hasn't got any...
-Maybe it skipped her somehow.
-Magic can do that?
Magic can do whatever it wants.
Foot skin scrub?
Fungus face mask.
I told you, I didn't do anything.
Try not to be jealous.
You can't all be perfect like me.
But we could be.
I found an ancient book
and made this when Ethel showed me
her wart before breakfast.
"Wart encouraging potion."
Apparently, it sucks them right up out
of your face.
Oi! Give that back!
[Felicity] We can share it, can't we?
[Esmerelda] Share what, exactly?
-Spill.
-Um, Ethel has a wart,
and everyone else wants one, too.
[sighs] This is gonna take forever.
I don't suppose you know
a speed-reading spell, do you?
-[meows]
-Can you smell burning?
[hair sizzles]
Better get a move on. Ow!
-[meows]
-Tabby.
Prepare to be astounded, girls...
for today we will be diving
into the fascinating physics of flying!
[chuckles]
Try saying that three times fast.
Mildred, you're late
and a tad overdressed.
I think better with a warm brain, sir.
Well, I'm gonna have to give you
and your cozy cranium a late mark.
Page 47, copy the paragraph
"flying in inclement weather."
Sorry, I got caught up.
I'm not having the best morning.
Ah.
Feeling a bit green are we? Froggy?
Not quite as bad as that, but close.
Well, I'll let you off this time.
If you feel the urge,
I've got an emergency bottle of flies
in my drawer.
Thanks.
[Enid taps desk]
[whispers] When did you become electric?
When my own hair turned against me.
[groans]
[sighs]
I'm sorry if I upset you before.
-Congrats on the wart and everything.
-Thanks.
I wanted to apologize, too, actually,
for making fun of you.
-It's not your fault you don't know much.
-Thanks, I think.
Does wart palm make you nicer
or something?
It will make me fix that tangle quicker.
Um... We were about to go to the library
for a removal spell anyway.
Removal? She'll end up bald.
You need something gentle.
I know just the thing.
[sighs] That feels so much better.
My hair!
Ethel Hallow, you are the cruelest,
nastiest, most horrible--
Silence!
Who can quote me the Witches' Code,
section 97, clause four?
Never put a cat in a cauldron.
-Never feed dragons after midnight.
-Ethel?
Never remove any part
of another witch's anatomy,
be it arm, leg or hair of head.
Precisely.
Miss Cackle's office, both of you.
Now.
[Ethel] She begged me to help her.
Ethel, the last time you attempted
to help Mildred,
we had a most dreadful kerfuffle
and two very confused cats.
Let's not forget Mildred's catalog
of misdemeanors.
[Miss Cackle] Indeed.
The two of you seem to be stuck
in something of a vicious circle.
It's time you put a stop to it.
You're to keep away from each other
for the time being.
Ethel, I'll be needing those scissors.
Go back to your lessons,
while Miss Hardbroom and I
decide upon the best course of action.
Could I please make a suggestion,
Miss Cackle?
-That we let off your sister lightly?
-No, not at all.
She's getting far too big
for her broomstick.
And the other first-years
aren't far behind.
It's every girl for herself.
A touch of friendly competition never
hurt anyone, you know that, Esmeralda.
I'm not sure this could be described
as friendly.
I had an idea
of how to make things better.
It's a little drastic, though.
[Miss Hardbroom]
Remember, if you cannot control yourself,
you cannot control magic.
And if you cannot control magic...
magic will control you.
Lizard's tail.
Feather of crow.
Take my hair and make it grow.
[sighs] I'll be back to normal in no time.
Still, you shouldn't be in trouble
for something that Ethel did.
I wonder what the punishment's
going to be.
I swear I didn't do anything!
No need to panic, girls,
they're quite harmless.
Class dismissed.
Yes!
"The first year coven wants you."
What's a coven?
"I am everywhere and nowhere,
many and few.
Find my door, high or low,
it's really up to you."
Sounds tricky.
Yeah, but what is it?
-My mum was in the Flaming Broomsticks.
-So was mine!
Is it a flying club?
More like a secret society,
a witching tradition.
The Flaming Broomsticks
launched the space shuttle.
And invented ice cream.
Your mums did all that?
Not them personally.
It goes back generations.
Of course.
[Maud] It feels like it's ready.
We have to solve the riddle
to find the meeting point.
It's like an initiation
before you can join.
So not everyone gets in.
-It'll be fun, don't worry.
-You'll love it, I promise.
[fluttering]
[meows]
No, it hasn't worked, Tabby.
I know you want to tell me.
Yes, you do. Come on.
Tell me where it is.
Oh, well... I'll catch you later.
[Maud sighs] You're still spiky.
-The potion didn't work.
-[Maud] Well, we'll find a better one.
Any luck cracking the riddle?
Nope.
Us neither.
We'd better start searching!
Reckon I'll sit this one out.
I know it's your tradition or whatever,
but it's not really mine.
-Of course it is!
-It's not.
I'll always be the odd one out.
But it's OK, I'm getting used to it.
I really hope you both get in.
[bell clangs]
[snores]
[Mildred clears throat]
All lessons are postponed
till after the first coven meeting.
You should get your skates on.
They'll start without you.
I'd rather stay here,
if it's all the same.
Oh. You're most welcome.
Won't be much of a lesson, though,
with just the one of you.
-Should I go back to my hutch then?
-Any homework you could do?
Well, it's not exactly work,
but I've been looking
for Hubble ancestors.
I could fetch my book.
If you insist on doing it the long way.
What's the short way?
We magic them up
and have a chat over tea?
Good idea. I'm parched.
What were you going to suggest?
Consulting Cackle's records,
I think I might have been at school
with a Hubble.
Really? What was she called?
Was she definitely a witch?
Or perhaps that was a Tubble...
or a Bubble.
Oh! My memory's not what it was.
But there's a way of checking?
Why are the school records
kept in a dungeon?
Technically, it was only a dungeon
for a century or two.
It's storage now...
unless you rub Miss Hardbroom up
the wrong way.
It's a bit small.
There are no small filing cabinets,
my dear, only small witches. [laughs]
All Hubbles, present and past,
schools and academies, first to last.
Go on then, it won't bite.
[Mildred] "Previous students: None."
Just me.
Mildred Hubble.
Well, not every witch attends an academy.
-How far do these records go back?
-Oh, not that far.
Only the odd millennia.
So if I was from a witching family,
we would have found them.
Why don't we get you back upstairs,
start sniffing out this coven?
I can't try to join it now.
This is proof I don't belong.
It doesn't matter how many stuffy
old witches you've got in your family.
A coven is about coming together
in the here and now
and doing incredible things with others
that would be impossible on your own.
Like ice cream and moon landings.
Exactly. Although putting
the two together isn't advisable.
You went into space?
One great leap for man,
one mere skip for witch-kind.
How?
Oh, a smidge of rocket fuel
and a lot of chanting.
I'll never know enough
to do something like that.
Forget about what you know for a minute.
Think about what you feel.
Can you feel your magic, Mildred?
More and more each day.
Then you belong, dear,
and you always will.
Thanks for helping, Miss Bat.
-[splat]
-[Miss Bat] Oh!
-Ohh!
-[Miss Bat] Oh, dear, a spot of bat drool.
There's a rather large colony
below stairs, I'm afraid.
Mill, what are you doing down here?
Getting slobbered on by bats mostly.
You?
The riddle says, "search high and low."
And we thought "low"
might mean the cellar.
I've already checked it out.
-No sign of any secret doors.
-You've been looking?
Might have had second thoughts.
It's not too late, is it?
Of course not.
Did Miss Bat help you
with a re-growth spell?
-Why?
-Your hair's coming back.
Ah, it must have been
a slow-acting potion.
Like us finding this coven.
Where to next?
"High," I suppose? Top of the school?
-To the roof!
-[giggling]
[ravens croak]
[giggling]
[Drusilla] "Everywhere and nowhere.
Everywhere and nowhere.
Everywhere and nowhere."
Oh, this is taking too long.
Uh, Dru...
I feel funny, like my wart's
trying to tell me something.
[Drusilla] Like what?
[Ethel] I can see a secret door.
I can smell something:
baking bread and boiled turnips.
It must be in the kitchen.
Why would you do that?
First witch there is founding member.
Founding member chooses magical missions
and who goes on them.
It's a huge responsibility.
We can't just let anyone do it.
But if you didn't
get there first fairly...
Then you won't get picked for anything.
If that doesn't bother you, then I'm
more than happy to find it on my own.
[Drusilla] Wait for me.
Look, Mildred, your hair, it's grown.
[Miss Hardbroom]
When Esmeralda used the word "drastic,"
I have to say I was expecting
a more uncompromising approach.
Ethel's desperate to stand out,
Mildred to blend in. Polar opposites.
The sooner they make friends, the better.
Pushing them together
will only cause more chaos.
What would life be
without a little chaos now and then?
[Ethel] We must have gone wrong somewhere.
[Drusilla]
But we've searched the entire school.
-[Maud] Careful, Millie.
-We really have gone wrong if she's here.
We're heading for the roof.
We'll be out of your hair--
-Whoa!
-[Ethel] Get me out, get me out!
[Enid] It's going everywhere!
Your hair's out of control!
-[Ethel] What have you turned me into?
-Nothing, I didn't do anything.
-[Ethel] Get me out!
-[Mildred] It's in my hair. I can't see!
[Ethel] But it's not mine!
There must be something up
with the potion.
-Was there an antidote spell in the book?
-I can't remember.
Try a general one.
Potion born of witch's plot,
I bid you cease, I bid you stop!
-[Drusilla] Ethel!
-[Maud] Mildred.
[girls moan]
[Ethel] Nice work, Mildred!
Miss Cackle! Miss Cackle!
[Miss Hardbroom] You were saying?
[Ethel] Come on, this way.
Keep her back.
If her hair explodes again,
we might never get out.
[Mildred]
I'm trying my best to keep it in.
-[Enid] It's everywhere.
-[Felicity] What happened?
It's taking over the whole school.
[screaming]
It appears to be distinctly
Hubble-colored.
And there's a few burnt bits.
I made a re-growth potion.
It must have been too strong.
Or someone messed with it,
added something to send it out of control.
I did no such thing.
Well, if we don't know what it is,
we can't reverse it.
I got slobbered on, that added something.
Bat drool.
Bat drool's an amplifier, toad brain.
What's an amplifier?
It makes a spell more powerful.
It's alive.
OK, does anyone know
a good bat drool antidote
before we get smushed
into a giant hairball?
We don't need one.
[Maud] We really, really do.
Any antidote spell should work
as long as Ethel says it.
She's got wart power, remember?
I think that's quite enough chaos
for one day.
Wait.
We set them a test, didn't we?
And this will be a far tougher challenge
than the one we came up with.
Let's see if they can rise to it.
Potion born of witch's plot,
I bid you cease, I bid you stop!
Why isn't it working?
[screaming]
Say it with your finger on the wart
and really concentrate.
It won't make any difference!
-Please, Ethel!
-I can't!
-We can barely breathe! Try it again!
-It won't work, it's not real.
[Drusilla] What?
I don't have wart power.
I don't have a wart.
I made it up.
Just out of interest, how much longer
are you prepared to wait?
I might hang on till eyebrow height.
[muffled squeal]
It's only a spot of hair, Hecate.
What's the worst that can happen?
My parents, they're obsessed
with Esmie and Sybil.
I faked it so they'd notice me for once.
You didn't have to lie to us.
I didn't ask you to get
so excited about it.
[Mildred] I'm trying to stop it.
It's too strong. I can't do it on my own.
Which is why I need you all to help.
Hold hands, quick!
If it can launch witches into space,
it can tame my hair.
A chant to break the spell,
that's how covens work, right?
Everyone together. Which chant?
Cauldron blister, cauldron shake...
Break this spell and make it quake.
Rising moon and setting sun,
we aren't many, we are one.
[all] Cauldron blister, cauldron shake,
break this spell and make it quake!
Rising moon and setting sun,
we aren't many, we are one!
[laughing]
You did it.
We did it.
[Miss Cackle] Come in!
Come in!
Top thinking, Esmie.
Your plan worked a treat.
The mutant hair was the plan?
The coven was the plan
to encourage teamwork.
The hair was a Mildred-shaped spanner
in the works.
"I am everywhere and nowhere,
many and few.
Find my door, high or low...
it's really up to you."
Did we pass the test?
Uh, only this group. The others
will have to try again next time.
You cracked the code by working together.
The chant unlocked the coven door.
[Miss Bat] Congratulations.
Very great things await
such a brave bunch.
[Maud whispers] Well done, Millie!
I'm glad to see you're missing something.
We frown on fakery here.
I'm awfully sorry, Miss Cackle.
I trust you've learned your lesson?
Warts are a thing of the past.
We're much more subtle these days.
You'd do well to remember that,
Ethel Hallow.
I'm so glad you changed your mind.
I still swamped everyone
with hair, though.
-Your hair solved the riddle.
-Maybe.
-But it still doesn't make me a witch.
-Mill!
Miss Bat helped me search
for my ancestors.
There weren't any.
So? You're officially the first witch
of your entire family.
That's amazing!
You think?
[sighs] The potion went wrong,
but you knew what to do.
That makes you ten times witchier
than a lot of us.
So, without further ado,
we will begin the ceremony.
As members of your new coven,
you'll be more than just classmates...
you'll be sisters.
It doesn't matters
who's the best or the worst.
All that matters is joining together
with your fellow witches
and being stronger and better together.
Mildred Hubble.
I'm really, really sorry about the hair.
It was the bat drool and--
Toss your invitation into the cauldron.
But I'm not in trouble?
[Miss Bat] No, dear.
You're being sworn in as founder member.
[Mildred] Me?
You were the first witch
to reveal the door.
That also means you get to choose a name.
How about the Hair Raisers?
[laughing]
The first and founding member
of the Hair Raisers.
Mildred Hubble!
[echoing voices]
[theme music playing]